# Road-Condition-Classification-Using-SVM-and-KNN
This project classifies road conditions in West Java using data from the Open Data Provinsi Jawa Barat which spans from 2018 to 2021. Two multinomial classification approach, Support Vector Machines (SVM) and K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) along with key methodologies such as outlier removal and hyperparameter tuning are utilized to enhance accuracy.

### Abstract
Good and well-maintained roads are important in supporting population mobility and road user safety. Datasets from Open Data West Java are used to analyze and identify road sections that need further repair or maintenance. The results of the analysis show that the features that have a significant effect on road condition are the length of the road section and the year of data collection. The data is divided into training and testing data to design machine learning models. In this case, SVM and KNN models were used. Although both of them experienced overfitting, the KNN model performed better and more consistently than the SVM model. However, these two methods are not fully appropriate for road condition classification prediction. Improvements are needed in the variety of predictor features, the amount of sample data, and more optimal parameter determination in the tuning process. It is hoped that this research can contribute to more effective planning, proper resource allocation, and decision-making based on facts and accurate data to improve road quality, reduce congestion, increase transportation efficiency, and road user safety in West Java Province.

### Conclusion
In the dataset of Road Condition, there are still some missing values that require removal of missing data. After analyzing with Chi-square and Pearson significance tests, it is revealed that the features that significantly affect the response variable (road condition) are the length of the road section and the year of data collection. The data was evenly distributed into the four response categories but became imbalanced after the data cleaning. Removing outlier data was done to make the model training process more effective. Unfortunately, there was no significant change after removing the outliers.

To build the machine learning model, the data was divided into training and testing data. The methods chosen for modeling were Support Vector Machine (SVM) and K-Nearest Neighbor (KNN). Both models encountered overfitting which can be caused by less diverse predictor variables, less sample data, selection of inappropriate machine learning methods, and determination of suboptimal parameter estimation values in the tuning process.

The SVM model yields an accuracy of 0.98 for training data and 0.72 for testing data. While the KNN model yields an accuracy of 0.99 for training data and 0.68 for testing data. The difference in accuracy between the two models is not quite visible, as well as the difference in average accuracy for each fold when cross validation is performed. The SVM model has a mean accuracy value of ≈ 0.742 and the KNN model has a mean accuracy value of ≈ 0.755. It can be concluded that neither method is appropriate for classifying the road condition. However, the KNN model performed better and is more consistent.
